== LOOPLE
= GA WDI Major Project No.2 created by (H)A.C.K.

An interactive javascript/rails based music toy that is easy and fun to use!

== MODELS
= TABLES

USERS - LOOPS - TRACKS - KEYLOGS - LOOPS_TRACKS

= RELATIONSHIPS

* USERS --> Has many --> LOOPS
* LOOPS --> Belong to --> USERS
* LOOPS --> Has many --> TRACKS -- through LOOPS_TRACKS
* TRACKS --> Has many --> LOOPS -- through LOOPS_TRACKS
* LOOPS --> Has many --> KEYSTROKES
* KEYSTROKES --> Belong to --> LOOPS

== MUCH JAVASCRIPT GOODNESS WILL BE HAD

== App process (initial dev)

1. There will be a loop of 1 bar, always playing on-screen (play will be represented by a moving bar or playhead, left to right). This loop will initially be empty.
2. User can play sounds by hitting keys, and if they want to permanently add it to the loop, they need to hold space+key to add that sound at that exact time. This will also be visually added to the loop, and from now on played everytime the playhead passes that point.
3. Each sound will also play an associated animation at the time that it plays.
4. User can click on a sound on the loop to also remove it from the loop.
5. User can save the loop at any time if they have built it up to a point they like (via keyboard button or on-screen button).
6. User can also grab a different loop from their saved loops at any time (so they are essentially live-mixing loops). Selecting a saved loop, queues it up to be played immediately at the end of the current loop (we only ever deal with one loop at a time).
7. User can still play or add new sounds over the top of a saved loop while it is playing.

= Givens of this first build process

* Basic crud system (so user can register and start saving loops)
* javascript/webkit audio API based sound manipulation and playback
* javascript 2JS or 3JS and CSS3 animations
* javascript to represent the live loop
* ajax to save the current loop seamlessly
* ajax to load a saved loop into the mix seamlessly

Only once these basics are working and tested we can move on to:

== App Dev Stage 2

= A tracks 'record' mode

1. User can click a RECORD button to start the process - the current loop will be recorded as loop1.
2. At any time, the user can select any of their saved loops to play, this wil also be recorded.
3. Once the user chained together a sequence of loops playing that they like they click stop and they have a full track they can share. 

== More Sweet Stuff We'd Like but Not Inittially Essesntial

* Tempo adjustment (would obviously affect the current play speed, but could also be saved to a track, so the track plays at the right speed as the user intended)
* Multiple banks of sounds (selecting different banks would also change the animations slightly - probably colour only)
* A metronome function that can be switched on/off
* Social share buttons for the saved tracks
* It would be REALLY nice if we could adjust the sound of a sound instance by dragging it up or down on the screen
